
= About

Ntxt is a simple text format that defines hierarchical blocks of text 
and tags on those blocks. The goal is to give the author an easy way 
to search their text in a slightly more structured way than +grep+ 'ing.

Any tags found in a block are extracted and the block is _tagged_ with them.
All parent blocks also receive the tags of their child blocks. Thus, the 
root block is tagged with all tags occuring in the document.

== Format Rules
=== Headers

Header lines look like something you would see out of a wiki.

  = Header 1 =
  == Header 2 ==
  = Another Header 1 =
  
Header 1 is the largest and highest header. All text after it, aside from
another 1-header, will be considered a sub-block. In the example 
"Header 1" and "Another Header 1" are the two top-level blocks. "Header 2" is
a child of "Header 1".

=== Indentation

Indentation also forms blocks.

  = Header 1 =
  == Header 2 ==
    Sub block of header 2.
      Sub block of the preceding line.
    Another block below header 2.
  = Another Header 1 =

In the above example Header 2 has 1 sub-block because there is an indentation
of 2-spaces with an intermediate indentation of 4-spaces. That 4-space line
is bundled into a subblock to the 2-space indented block of text.

The only ways to break out of this 2-indent text is to:

1. Put in an empty line.
2. Put in a header.
3. Indent more shallowly, such as a 1-space line.

=== Tags

Lines beginning with [tag1] [tag2] are considered to have tags
+tag1+ and +tag2+. For example:

  Block1
  [block 1 tag] [example]
  
  [this is tag] Block2 [not a tag]
  [block 2 tag] [example]
  
Notice, tag names may have spaces. Both blocks are tagged with +example+.
And finally, <code>not a tag</code> is, well, not a tag. It does not start a line.

Also note that you can't tag header blocks directly because the header line
must start with = and tag lines must begin with [. Blocks inherit all their 
child blocks' tags, though, so finding header blocks by tags is still possible.
